README3.txt

1. Overview
This document provides detailed instructions on how to run basic function tests and unit tests for the project. The tests are designed to verify the correct functioning of various features of the application, such as the menu interactions, user inputs, and core components.

2. Setup Requirements

To run the tests, you need to set up your environment as follows:

1. Ensure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) installed, as the tests use JavaScript-based frameworks.
2. Install project dependencies by running the following command in the terminal:
   ```sh
   npm install
   ```
3. Make sure you have a browser installed (e.g., Google Chrome) to run automated tests.
4. Recommended: Install testing tools such as [Jest](https://jestjs.io/), [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/), or any other preferred testing framework.

3. Running Unit Tests

To run unit tests for the different components, follow these steps:

1. Run the following command to initiate all unit tests:
   ```sh
   npm run test
   ```
   This command will execute all defined unit tests in the project, covering components such as user authentication, navigation, form validations, and more.

2. Output will be displayed in the console, indicating if all tests have passed or if any errors occurred. Look for green checkmarks (pass) or red crossmarks (fail).

3. Example Unit Test Files:
   - `navbar.test.js`: Tests the correct rendering and navigation of the navbar.
   - `schedule.test.js`: Tests functionality for scheduling.
   - `register.test.js`: Tests user registration validation and error-handling.

4. Running Functional Tests (Menu & User Interactions)

The following are the steps for running functional tests to verify different menu combinations and expected outcomes.
4.1 Test for Menu Interactions

1. Manual Testing:
   - Launch the application by running:
     ```sh
     npm start
     ```
   - Open your browser and navigate to the application (usually `http://localhost:3000`).
   - Navigate through the menu using different combinations (e.g., Login → Schedule → Video).
   - Verify the following actions:
     - Clicking "Login" directs to the Login page.
     - Clicking "Schedule" redirects to the Schedule section and shows the availability slots.
     - Navigating to "Video" successfully loads the video conferencing page.

2. Example Test Combinations:
Scenario 1: Login Page
Steps:

Launch the application by running:
sh
Copy code
npm start
Open your browser and navigate to the application at http://localhost:3000.
Locate the "Login" link in the navigation bar (navbar) and click on it.
The "Login" page should load, showing fields for email and password input.
Enter an email address in the email field.
Enter a password in the password field.
Click on the "Log In" button.
Expected Outcome:

After clicking the "Login" link, the application should navigate to the login page.
The login form should be rendered correctly, with both email and password fields visible.
After entering credentials and clicking the "Log In" button, if the credentials are valid, the user should be authenticated and redirected to the dashboard or a landing page.
In case of incorrect credentials, an appropriate error message should be displayed, prompting the user to try again.
Scenario 2: Schedule Availability
Steps:

Navigate to the "Schedule" page by clicking on the "Schedule" link in the navbar.
The weekly schedule should be visible, showing all the days of the week (Monday to Sunday) and time slots ranging from 7:00 am to 12:00 am.
Click on multiple time slots under different days to select availability (e.g., select 9:00 am and 10:00 am under Monday, and 2:00 pm under Wednesday).
After selecting the desired slots, click the "Save Availability" button.
Expected Outcome:

The "Schedule" page should load correctly, displaying all time slots for each day of the week.
When clicking on a time slot, the background color of that slot should change to green, indicating that it is available.
Clicking on a previously selected (green) time slot should deselect it, reverting it to its default color.
Clicking the "Save Availability" button should trigger a confirmation alert, verifying that the selected availability has been saved successfully.
The selected time slots should remain green even after saving, indicating that the availability was saved as expected.
Scenario 3: Switching Pages
Steps:

Navigate to the "Schedule" page by clicking on "Schedule" in the navbar.
After verifying that the schedule page has loaded correctly, click on the "Video" link in the navbar to navigate to the video conferencing page.
Once on the video conferencing page, click on the "Profile" link to navigate to the user's profile page.
Expected Outcome:

The application should allow seamless navigation between different pages without page reloads.
On clicking "Schedule," the page should load the scheduling interface, displaying the weekly schedule.
Clicking on "Video" should load the video conferencing interface, showing options for managing the video and audio.
Clicking on "Profile" should navigate to the profile page, displaying the user's details.
Throughout all these navigations, there should be no visible errors in the browser's console.
The navbar should remain consistent across all pages, providing an easy way to navigate between different sections of the application.

6. Notes
- Make sure all dependencies are properly installed before attempting to run tests.
- In case of any errors, ensure that the components have the correct export statements (`export default ComponentName`).

If you have any questions, feel free to reach out to the development team for assistance.